seabiscuit did just what I thought he'd
do Pollard told the columnist the next
day he made a rear-admiral out of war
Admiral when it came time a few weeks
later for reporters to cast their
ballots for a horse of the year there
was no debate over which one deserved
the honor the biscuit sports writer bill
coram wrote turns out to be the kind of
mama used to make
just six weeks later Seabiscuit's career
seemed over On February 14th 1939 as he
swung around the final turn of a prep
race as Santa Anita
Seabiscuit stumbled his left foreleg
suddenly giving way his suspensory
ligament had been ruptured it was likely
that he would never run again
Howard was crushed but he refused to use
the word retirement he took his horse
home to his California ranch for what he
called a nice long rest
in April Pollard arrived with Agnes he
was flat broke and had no home to offer
his new wife graciously the Howards took
them in for a third time his leg had
been broken and reset he hobbled along
now and drank to dull the pain
Seabiscuit and I were a couple of old
cripples together Pollard later said all
washed up
[Music]
throughout the summer of 1939 horse and
jockey convalesced together taking long
limping walks pushing a little farther
each day by September they were up to
five miles out there among the hooting
owls Pollard later remembered
we both got sound again I think that my
father found a solace in watching this
horse come back and grow strong and I
think in some ways well Seabiscuit
became his role model in the way you
know and if he can do it I can kind of
thing late that fall Charles Howard made
an extraordinary announcement on March
2nd nineteen forty seven-year-old
Seabiscuit would take one last stab at
the race that it's so far eluded him
Santa Anita's hundred grandeur but there
was no mention of who would be in the
saddle if red breaks that leg again
Howard said he'll be crippled for life
still Pollard insisted he was fit enough
to ride old pops and I have four good
legs between us he told a close friend
maybe that's enough
on race day red came into the paddock
just before 4 o'clock around his neck
hung a medal of Saint Christopher that
Agnes had given him for luck he wasn't
too proud to admit he needed it
eyes of the turf world are on Santa need
in the comeback of the great Seabiscuit
twice he's lost $100,000 handicapped by
a nose now if those valuable pins can
stand the gaff today he'll try again
as Smith hoisted him into the saddle
Pollard felt his confidence returned you
know the horse and the horse snowshoe
smith whispered bring him home
for pollard it would all come down to
that
[Music]
exactly one minute and 36 seconds after
the bell rang he found himself bottled
up with Seabiscuit straining at the
reins there was no way around the
frontrunner finally at the far turn a
lane opened barely wide enough for the
horse to get through Pollard leaned
forward in the saddle and shouted now
pop
at the touch of the whip Seabiscuit
broke through and exploded into the
he empowered scorch down stretchin under
the wire
[Applause]
[Music]
Seabiscuit had clocked the fastest mile
and a quarter in Santa Ana need his
history the second fastest ever run on
an American track and had surpassed the
world money winning record by more than
$60,000 some called it the greatest
comeback in the history of American
sports Oh wrote columnist Jolly Roger
that I had lived to see this day
[Music]
in the winner's circle Pollard sat
straight-backed on his horse his red
hair matted with sweat
beneath him Seabiscuit was still calmly
munching the flowers from his victory
wreath as dozens of camera bulbs flash
[Music]
don't think college said later he didn't
know he was the hero he suffered
career-ending injuries and surmounted
them he ran until a very advanced age
and he was written by a jockey who
suffered calamitous accidents who
somehow pulled himself together to
crippled old men to go out a blaze of
glory and do great things and to a
depression ridden anxious frightened
nation it must have come like like a
great sunrise
I think my father understood that it was
just by chance that he became famous so
many millions have talent or beauty and
they haven't been in the right place at
the right time they haven't drifted into
you know an arena where they could be
appreciated I think he knew that very
deeply that it was all luck
[Music]
I think that together Seabiscuit and he
made a whole comet a star a ball of
light
there is something quintessentially
American about everyone in this story
and about the ability to triumph over
hardship that's the journey that's the
journey toward the American dream this
country was built on that and he
embodies that more than anybody else he
is an extraordinary story that way
[Music]
you